COMPANY: TSMC
QUARTER: Q1 2026 
EVENT DATE: APRIL 16, 2026
TRANSCRIPT:
"Wendell Huang - TSMC - Senior Vice President and CFO: First quarter revenue increased 8.4% sequentially in NT, supported by strong demand for our leading-edge process technologies. In US Dollar terms, revenue increased 6.4% sequentially to $35.9 billion, slightly ahead of our first-quarter guidance. Gross margin increased 3.9 percentage points sequentially to 66.2%, primarily due to cost improvement efforts, a higher capacity utilization rate, and a more favorable foreign exchange rate.
Now let's turn to our current quarter guidance. Based on the current business outlook, we expect our second quarter revenue to be between USD39.0 billion and USD40.2 billion, which represents a 10% sequential increase or a 32% year-over-year increase at the midpoint. Based on the exchange rate assumption of USD1 to TWD31.7, gross margin is expected to be between 65.5% and 67.5%.
Now, let me turn to our key messages. I will start by talking about our first quarter 2026 and second quarter 2026 profitability. Compared to fourth quarter, our first quarter gross margin increased by 390 basis points sequentially to 66.2%, primarily due to cost improvement efforts, a higher overall capacity utilization rate, and a more favorable foreign exchange rate. Compared to our first quarter guidance, our actual gross margin exceeded the high end of the range provided three months ago by 120 basis points, mainly due to a higher-than-expected overall capacity utilization rate and better cost improvement efforts. We have just guided our second quarter gross margin to increase by 30 basis points to 66.5% at the midpoint, primarily driven by a higher overall utilization rate and continued cost improvement efforts, including productivity gains, partially offset by dilution from our overseas fabs. Looking ahead to the second half of the year, given the six factors that determine our profitability, there are a few puts and takes I would like to share. As we have said before, the initial ramp-up of our 2-nanometer technology will start to dilute our gross margin in the second half of this year, and we expect between 2% and 3% dilution for the full year of 2026. In addition, given the recent situation in the Middle East, prices for certain chemicals and gases are likely to increase. Based on our current assessment, there may be impact to our profitability, but it is too early to quantify the impact. On the other hand, we will continue to leverage our manufacturing excellence to generate more wafer output and drive greater across-node capacity optimization in our fab operations to support our profitability.
Finally, let me talk about our 2026 capital budget. At TSMC. A higher level of capital expenditures is always correlated with higher growth opportunities in the following years. With our strong technology leadership and differentiation, we are well positioned to capture the multi-year structural demand from the industry megatrends of 5G, AI and HPC. We now expect our 2026 capital budget to be towards the high end of our range of between USD52 billion and USD56 billion as we continue to invest heavily to support our customers' growth."